---
layout: post
title: "Model"
date: 2014-07-28 05:40
comments: true
---

Previously I said I could provide nothing to help you determine "What should I actually be practicing?"  That
was a lie, but it was important to get out of the way: _you_ are responsible for what you should be practicing.
Coaches, friends, random strangers, and so on can suggest things you should be practicing.  They may be right
or wrong (I have had a lot of unsolicited suggestions in the last year, some of which were actually useful),
but you must practice, so it is up to you to decide 'what'.

I still don't have a lot of insight into 'what' you should be practicing, but based on the last year, I do
have one piece of advice: Pick a Model.

Pick some pro in the top 500 of men or women who you want to be like.  Then imagine you play like them.  Start
studying their playing style, look at slow motion of their strokes, imagine that your muscles worked like theirs.
And practice _that_.  Twelve hours a week (or more... or less).

<!-- more -->

### My Model

I picked Federer.  It was kind of a no-brainer (given his rank), but I picked Federer when he was 'down' and no
longer #1.  The reason I picked Roger Federer is that he played how I wanted to be able to play.  It was as simple
as that.  The second reason I picked Roger is that there was _a lot_ of
high speed film of him.  So there was a lot of information about _how_ he hit the ball from baseline through
serve.  Actually, I couldn't care less how Federer volleys: I have a touch game where my volley is basically innate.
I earned my volley through 18 years of work in my youth, so I don't actually watch or think about it at all (except _to think_
about it: they hit, I hit, watch ball, hit ball, see it hit your racket, don't look where it is going).

So Roger had the game I wanted, and had the videos of the game I wanted, but the last thing Federer had was something
he _didn't have_.  Federer has no talent.  That might sound like a slam against him, but it is actually the opposite.
Federer has a game _he completely deserves_.  He built himself into being able to play that game.  It isn't his
naturally gifted game: I hear he had that too, but that isn't what he plays with.  He has a game that he wanted, created,
and then executed on.  It is a "Game Plan", and as long as his "no talent" isn't totally alien to "my body", I can
copy him.

When I left tennis John McEnroe was the icon of tennis.  But McEnroe is the opposite of Federer: he is insanely, innately,
talented.  Or if not, he has created a tennis game that is simply _not copyable_.  I have seen youth try and fail.
I have seen them try and injure themselves.  Try, try, try, and fail, fail, fail.  Failing is not bad unless
success is impossible.  In my opinion, copying McEnroe is impossible.

But copying Federer is not.  At least one person did it (Federer himself), and the rest of us can do it too... if you
want.

### Your Model

You need to pick your model.  Feel free to pick Federer, but feel free to instead pick Serena, Rafeal, or anyone else in the top 500 who
makes you feel awesome.  "If I could play like that, I would feel awesome!"

And then start watching them, and start thinking "How could I play like that?"  "What would my strokes look like?"

Now you have the 'what'.




